All right, all right. Here we are, finally the Stellar round table on
NFT, so we are going to talk about on fungible tokens today. I will admit it wasn't that long ago before I thought, this had something to do with mushrooms or fungus. I didn't know what a fungible or non fungible token was. That was definitely one of my most earliest google queries, back when I was first getting introduced to this concept. We've got a fun little discussion for the next hour or so. We've got some fantastic guests on. I'll start with myself. My name is Tyler van der Hoeven. I'm the ecosystem evangelist at the Stellar Development Foundation. I spend my day writing documentation and doing workshops and building apps and understanding what the ecosystem, what folks like these panelists here are up to day to day so I think I have the best job, but could be wrong.
If you all can go ahead and make sure, you are unmuted and we'll go ahead and go around this proverbial round table. Maybe, Steve, if you want to go first a little bit, if you want to go first a little bit about yourself, how you got into Stellar, in what you're up to. Yeah, absolutely, cheers. So my name's Steve. I'm the CEO at task. We've got involved with Stellar moore through the community fund. We've been working with Stellar for. two and a half years. Task is a system that allows organizations to connect and engage with their teams, gather information, provide rewards and incentives through to teams and then take all that information and report back to investors and donors in the market in general. You know that's predominantly what we do. Got some interesting aspects about how we believe NFTs can be used, which looking forward to getting into later. And that's all from us. That is me super fantastic, really
Excited to have you on, particularly for that less than traditional use case that we might think about when we use that word NFT, fred, how about you? Yeah, hi everyone and thanks for having me. So, and also I wanted to say anion, gaseo j and all korean still up and watching at that time. So my name is federico. I am the founder of lightmint. I'm also the owner of teleport. So lightmint is a gaming platform basically connecting gamers to the crypto world with game asset ownership, cross currency, decentralized in app purchases and also a lot of other features that leverage the Stellar blockchain. So just recently- and it was alive with Sam Conner on monday- we unveiled our NFT and collectible marketplace on Stellar, and the marketplace basically was created to
Connect the dots between all our products to provide more synergies, and it will accept any kind of NFTs. It will be available publicly within the next few days. We are still fixing a few stuff and, yeah, I will talk about it a bit more later. Super, yeah, very excited to have you on board. You've been around for a long time in the NFT space. Super excited about that NFT platform. Can't wait to start playing on that. Zach, how about yourself? Stellar zack? Hello hi, my name is zach. I am the director of marketing solar development foundation, which may make you wonder why am I here to talk about NFTs on an ft roundtable? My actual introduction to the space was actually blockchain collectibles- pre like 2018, like 2017, 2016 kind of stuff- and it's been interesting to watch the evolution of that kind of thing and the evolution of digital ownership and I've got a lot of thoughts just
Generally, just having explored this before my time at SDF, and, yeah, I'm excited to hear what, how we, how you guys, are implementing this stuff into your current solutions or use cases. So, yeah, super, yeah, very excited. Zach and I have a fun little history of before either of us worked at SDF. We were doing some stuff around color glyph. That's how we were introduced, not exactly NFTs, but still the idea of crypto gaming items and memeing the internet with strange and wonderful digital items. So for our first discussion topic, I think it's good to lay a groundwork, kind of create a foundation around definitions. Were you going to use the word NFT a lot? I think it's an acronym, but the acronym maybe has grown a bit beyond just that, or NFTs have grown a bit beyond that, fred. I remember when you were talking with Sam connor a couple days ago, you touched on this a bit-
That NFTs is an acronym, but it's grown beyond that a little bit. So, if you can briefly touch on, when somebody says NFT or when you think about it, what does that mean to you, what does that mean to your users and how does that affect the way that you build enlightenment or products supporting NFTs? Yeah, I mean so. NFT is essentially like, yes, strict definitions, they are unique assets and that means they are not interchangeable. But, yes, the way people use the term NFTs these days is more to describe a wider range of non fractionable assets. Right, so they are not necessarily unique. And, yes, this definition fits better, much better, the current use case of NFTs, which is essentially to provide proof of ownership for digital content within a decentralized world, right, so, yeah, that I think with the more and more decentralized and the more and more disengaged our
Digital platforms become, the more nfcs are meaningful. Yeah, I remember when- because NFTs for me obviously kind of meant that acronym but then I saw an auction or a sale or something that was a one of 10 NFT sale. I'm like I feel like we're moving beyond what NFTs actually are and they're starting to take on. There's nothing wrong with a one of 10 sale of something, but that's not what an NFT, the acronym is. So maybe it's starting to move beyond that. I don't know, zack, maybe you have some thoughts around this concept of moving away from just an acronym to taking on more of a ideological ownership. Freedom there, I mean I I'll echo fred. I mean 100, it's like digital ownership stuff early on. I mean if you look at, I mean outside of, like colored coins and stuff, but moving into like early Ethereum collectibles all you had were to work with erc20 like contracts,
And you know my like, the stuff we were working on were modified erc20 contracts, that like tracked ownership, but they were like single, like, not no decimal thing, so like we were thinking about things like trading cards or like you know rare, like rare items and drops and video games or something like that. Like those things aren't unique in that you can like you'll have multiple mickey mantle cards in a baseball card pack, but there's only so many that exist, and so I think the acro acronym doesn't bother me, because before there was NFTs, that concept existed anyway. And so if that, if we're calling them nfps now as like the broader space term, I don't think it matters if it's a one of one thousand, because the principle is the same, it's not like a currency or something else. Yeah, yep, yes, that digital ownership that I think is so interesting and that, being what people mean when
They're talking about NFTs, is taking whatever we used to mean when it was physical ownership of something and finding a way to turn that into digital ownership, where you can transfer and gain a lot of that same value, where I'm holding the one thing or there's only ten people in the world that have this. Somehow you can replicate that digitally, where you're not physically holding an item but that same construct is existing. Steve, did you have something to add there? You know what I mean. I agree with zach in that I don't for me, if this allows generation of limited editions, which really is the kind of one to ten or one to a thousand, the lovely thing about NFTs is it's empowering artists. Again, you know art, from pictures to music and all sorts of creativity. I think when you combine NFTs with smart contracts, we're going to see a wave back. I mean if we had digitization came in, you could copy and paste everything we saw: file sharing. If you look at the music industry,
The only musicians you can see now typically a huge artist because you make all your money going on the road. I think with the NFTs and smart contracts and the way that in which you can start to reward people, we can go back to the old kind of cottage industry of someone's in their bedroom they're pumping out great tunes and they're making great art and there's a way of them having a revenue stream which respects them as an artist and they don't need to be, you know, going on the road. I think that will be really lovely to see because it's a kind of it's going back to the value of art before digitization kind of took that away. I would even take a step further and say, like you know, the art stuff is really cool from a perspective of the artists are basically the guinea pigs in this NFT experiment. They're out there and they're putting these pieces out and they don't know what the like long term, how the format's gonna treat them, like what they're gonna do, but you know they're testing the medium, but like they're there breaking grounds for I think things we talk about like there's projects in our ecosystem
Already that are thinking about like fractional analyzing things like real estate. But if you're just like a normal, like person, and you're buying like a home, you currently have to go through something like a title company and multiple parties. And there's an evolution in the future where NFTs, like an artist, could create a beautiful piece and it could be basically the digital representation of the title for a home. So you could have thing like other things represented as NFTs, like a home title or something like that. It does end up circumventing like processes right now that we have to have a title company, because the source of truth for the owners, like who owns the house or who owes the title to the house, but like NFTs, you know that concept applies very nicely to that and I think the artists are breaking the ground here. But the digital ownership doesn't stop just with art and it doesn't just, and I think fred's take like:
Yeah, I think you guys are obviously, pushing beyond just the art stuff here as well, yeah, I mean to me one of the main use case as well of NFTs and basically being able to address the digital goods needs is the fact that if you look at the industry today, you will see, for example, in the music industry, spotify is a platform that controls most of the paycheck of all those artists, and we have the same in the gaming industry with the app store, the play store and, with this, the availability of those items outside of those platforms and on the centralized platforms, on decentralized networks. Then we can really like break out from this model. There was a I just wanted to add with you know, as you break out from that model, as you look at things like you know land ownership, I mean for me, I'm very interested in that aspect of actually taking the digital certificate, having it mapping on to physical objects. I think there's a lot of potential there. But I think when people say well, what's the point?
A really easy way of summarizing it is: you look at something like fake degrees. Any of us can go out on the internet. We can go and grab a fake degree of whatever, and you know it's not the biggest problem we have in the world. But in terms of fixing that problem with a NFT, which is, you know, simply tied to someone's domain, with a tamil file, with an issue, you know an asset that's being issued, now you've got your NFT certificate. It's very you know, and it's you know. You've got a degree. That tumble file can be at harvard or whatever the education institute is. You've got a yeah two. Second check. And the other bit that I think can become interesting is that can become automated. Background checks just get automated. No one needs to actually go and have a look at anything. And you could extend that further into a personality test. So if you want to apply for a job, I complete some personality tests. I'm
Quite happy to open that up for someone to look at. So I'm sending NFTs, which is, you know, here's proof of my degree, here's some personality insights, to see if I'm right for the team. There's various other kind of digital aspects of my personality I could be putting forward, and then you know, you almost start to get rid of hr and recruiting departments, as that automates loads of systems there and it. It's not the biggest problem in the world, but I think it's a. I think there's interesting models of using NFTs in that type of way. Yeah, it's something that's been interesting, even on Stellar quest, because we have these different challenges that people do and they earn badges and it'll be neat. Like you don't get those badges unless you've completed the challenges, and so having those badges in a wallet that you can verifiably prove that you have ownership over is a stamp of, I've gone through Stellar quest series one or Stellar quest series two and that means that I know something about Stellar, because I can't
Something about Stellar, because I can't get these badges any other way. That's really neat. And so the NFT is a vehicle for trust or a vehicle for assurance for an employer to say, okay, well, we need somebody who knows Stellar. I hope they do, oh, look, I can. As long as you can prove ownership over this account that you say you own, I can have some level of assurance. And seeing that model moved out, where NFTs are a vehicle rather than only a piece of art or something that you own is as the item itself, but more vehicle towards something else, is kind of cool. So that was kind of our initial introduction to what NFTs are and how they're being used a bit in the real world today and I think we've already touched on it a bit. But if we could transition slightly to- there's so much hype and buzz and noise around NFTs, if we boil some of that away for you all personally, what do you see the value of NFTs
For the spheres in the realms, you're in, we've already started touching a little bit. Those begin to show themselves in like product use cases and the things that you all are building. But if you can touch on those a bit more in depth of what, if you scrape away the noise, what do you think will be left from NFTs in five or six years, maybe Steve, if you want to take that one first? Well, in five, six years, we will definitely be collecting NFTs because I think, as humans, we just love collecting stuff, so that you know that the collectible aspect and you know the getting away from the ridiculousness of buying pixels for millions of dollars, there's gonna be a steady state of very happy adults and school kids collecting lots of interesting stuff because we just love doing it. So I mean that you know that that's great. There's
That certification aspect, which I think is personally. I find that interesting. I think it can solve a lot of problems if you expand that certification concept in terms of who is doing what, who you know who's doing what, which can be at an individual level, it can be a organizational level. I think if you look at Stellar or any blockchain similar to Stellar, in that mission which is get the finances through, get, you know, get finance, financial fluidity globally, that's one problem you solve. The next problem: is it going to the right person? One of the key issues that we have is finances being misdirected. I think if you combine the certification, you can start to direct finances in the right way, because you can start to get it through depending on particular certification and deciding that that's going to be the way that you would send finances through. So I think reputation and building reputation,
Certification can work in all sorts of ways that tie and automate financial distribution. I think the other bit that I hope will be something we see in four, five, six years- and it's certainly an area that I'm interested in personally- is that if we look at the key issues we face globally, the incentive schemes don't work. And I remember a friend talking to me a couple of years ago talking about you know natural assets. How can you take national natural assets and convert them into investment propositions? If you could, if we accept that human greed is typically what drives things, then could you harness natural assets in a way and turn them into investment vehicles where they give financial roi and there's then a desire to protect, there's a desire to you know whether it's. You know
Reforestation, whatever it happens to be. Now, if you take the NFT and you can track that, to track physical assets, natural assets, you can then have investments into, say, forestry. There's a the potential of you know as you purchase younger trees, if there's evidence that they're growing, that asset goes up in value naturally over time and if you're using it as an NFT which is tradable, you have a natural asset which people can be trading- and I think it's a, it's an idea which I think, if you get the economics right, you could go out and start to solve some of these problems, because a lot of the problems we have are just because the incentive schemes are totally wrong. So I'm hoping that there's potential there long term for NFTs in terms of natural asset investment. Yeah, fantastic, I echo a lot of those sentiments personally myself. Fred, how about you?
Yeah, so I mean, there's a thing that says there's no bad publicity, right, but so I think somehow these stunts are also. They are not the ultimate use case for NFTs, but you know we can't stop the excitement of this part of the human nature. And then also, you know NFTs as a much wider appeal to mainstream than cryptocurrencies, for example. So I think all this is part of it. We need to be careful to not engage into too much destructive, reckless behavior. But I think somehow there's also good side into this kind of hype and excitement around nfgs. So, yeah, definitely not everyone is gonna sell the first five thousand days for 69 million and that's definitely not the use case. But so the way I see NFTs in the, that contributing to a better world is essentially being able to power decentralized world. Right, that's what
I was saying just before. the ability to disengage completely from those platforms. Because currently, let's say, you are a game developer, the only opportunity for we for you to sell NFTs or sell in app purchases is to go on the app store, on steam, on all those centralized places which somehow they impose their rules, and we saw, for example, with the games like fortnight, what happened when the store suddenly decides to put you out, and same for the music industry. So basically that's the way I see NFT is powering a decentralized world of tomorrow. Yeah, zach, I mean I was just going to say like I'm going to take fred's thing and what Steve says and then I'm going to say you said, did not hype. But I feel like this is going to come off feeling a little bit like hype. So the current like situation, obviously all this like the art trade stuff, there's a really
Unique thing happening where you're seeing like boutique shops now open up that are like going to, they're like labels. I would say, if you look at music industry or like art world, or they're like an agent where they are going out and seeking people and they're like trying to set them up with like an NFT strategy for releasing their stuff. And that's going to go away at some point. There will always be boutique stuff but like right now, that's where the opportunity is. But as people figure out like the strategies for this themselves, it will grow and I think you know what I was writing about. A lot back in 2016 and 2017 was like where are we going to go? As far as like working in the future? I wasn't expecting like pandemics and stuff, but like we have this. Everybody virtually now has introduced the internet because everybody was at home for a year and so you know offices may not necessarily be the same kind of thing. So you can have virtual workspaces, you can have like this weird match between virtual reality and augmented reality. You need to still have traditional things, like people still will live in houses, people will
Still own cars, there will still be like things that need to be bridged from the traditional world into this world. But like I think what I've seen happen, and even going back to fortnite, like yesterday, I think, epic announced that they had gotten a billion dollars in funding for something called the metaverse, which is going to be like brand disney world, I guess like vr brand disney world. It'll be like ready player one. I see those kind of environments growing second life is a great best bet experiment for virtual real estate, like they're all this stuff. To fred's point about like decentralized world, like that will come. It may not come in the next year and it may not come out of this immediate cycle. But people, like are definitely, I think, thinking about where to get to that point and what that means like am I going to be here in 25 years? Is this a five year thing? A 25 year thing like how long will it take for adoption and what steps are required to make it easier? But I think there's just infinite applications. It just depends on how
Digital we decide to get as a people. Yeah, it's just to comment on that. This is going off piste a little bit, so pull me back if it's gone going too far. But I think there's when you look at collaborative currencies, if you look at collaborative currencies which then complement a traditional currency, so you have communities that can use a currency between each other, then again in my brain I see I always see the NFT with a smart contract and being connected with some sort of inputs. The outputs can be certificates in the form of NFTs. And if you look at a collaborative currency where communities are working together and you're looking at reputation and understanding, trust between the different stakeholders within the community, then I think NFTs can come in there, if you look at that kind of absolutely digital future, decentralized future, then you know how do you
Automate reputation and understanding the different players within that community. I have a another thing that kind of goes off of that I've been chewing on recently, and that's on legality of nfd stuff and ownership. Like what, when I'm purchasing an nfc now, what does that actually guarantee me? As far as rights, I know you know if platform developers have to consider copyright and like cease and desist- and you have to. There will be tools to hide things from platforms that allow you to mint through them obviously will have terms of service that are like, hey, you can't do these things but because of how their, these assets are represented on chain, like, just removing them from a platform doesn't remove them from existence, and so I I'm wondering if there will be a big giant lawsuit one day where you have all these collectors basically suing for rights to use art that they've purchased and or vice versa, and what those actually guarantee. And I'm curious if,
Like, there's a whole industry for like terms of service that may need to come out of this like what? I suspect there will be a court case that resolves that if you put the terms as a service on your NFT itself when you mint it, then that will be the legal grounds, but anything done without that, I feel like, is going to have a bad time, but I don't know what do you guys think as far as like what does owning an NFT guarantee you, fred? I think, for Steve or Tyler, that's definitely something that, for example, in the Ethereum world, they started to work on that. You can see dapper labs, I think they started to specify a license called the NFT license. You can read it on NFT license org I think, and it specifies a lot of things about this. But, yeah, that's definitely a rule that NFTs cannot address. With the address ownership, they don't address the copyright and you can obviously have a lot of votes. They're
Difficult to address the question to the group. What's the situation with gdp, gdpr, blockchain, NFTs? Because if you're, let's say, a blockchain provider and someone decides to put personal identification information- and Stellar would be in the memo field- what happens? Whereas the where's the blame, where's the right to be forgotten exercise that must have come up in conversation. I'm just intrigued to know. Well, fred, do you want to tackle it? Or I'm not expert on that, yeah. So, yeah, I'm not legal, I'm not a legal counsel or anything like that, so I don't know if I necessarily have the greatest answer for you, but I think you know something like we maintain: like in through a service that may be something like mailchimp or like emma or whatever, like some digital database of things that's easy to go into and remove because there's personal information identified with the
Service that has those tools, but with a decent, just distributed network like bitcoin or like Ethereum, or even Stellar, like what's on the network. Part of using it like is you understand that that's what happened. There's no, it's immutable, right? So you're not, like you can't undo this stuff. So I don't know. I mean I feel like that's probably a whole different conversation of like what happens when personal data is on the blockchain, about KYC, AML, stuff to roll into. It's a big question. I don't know, I don't have an answer. I think it's pretty. Yeah, for sure, I mean so much of the liability there is on the entity that put that data there. But because I mean the assumption is, or the way these laws have been written- is the assumption that if you put it there, you can also take it off, and so the laws revolve around: take it off, you know, remove it, delete it. But when that assumption is no longer true, you're going to need different rules, and I don't know what those are going
And I don't know what those are going to be, other than I think it's probably going to boil down to. You need to be really careful what you put on a blockchain and that there's liability for you as someone having access to the blockchain, particularly less around tools like Stellar, which aren't designed for arbitrary data storage. You can put arbitrary data on there, but it's not designed for that, but I would that. My concern is more around things like ipfs and filecoin and our weave and these blockchains that are specifically designed for arbitrary data storage. That becomes more, that becomes a bigger issue where your purpose is to store arbitrary data, and so the assumption will be: I'm going to use this instead of my database, but if you don't understand what you're putting on there is immutable, you might end up in trouble. Yeah, you know what it leads me to believe, though, like I feel like any like based on no precedent, or like court cases- I can't pull anything up, I'm just pulling this out of thin air. But I feel like, with you know, with the internet,
Everybody's just using browsers to interpret like things. Like you can have a hardcore user that like that's you know doing it through. I don't know them like they like how David uses the internet, I think is the best way. But like you can also- and that's gonna be very specialized and people are aware that, like there's a dark net as well, like there's a, or you can use onion, like routers, like whatever like, but that's not the primary use. So my assumption would be: just like any platform, it if a primary way to display this information like foreign is a great example, because nfp, like, let's say, an Ethereum one, that's just a smart contract. There's not an image associated with that. There's not. You have to like interpret that through whatever thing and like called ipfs so you're viewing it in a viewer or something like that. Most people, you know, if they can't see that or they can't view it, they're never going to see it. So I feel like that's good enough, as long as it's for a majority, I mean I.
As long as it's for a majority, I mean I don't think that's going to settle a court case. You know saying, oh, that's good enough, they can't see it, but I think you know that's kind of how the internet's treated currently. Like you know what's you know as a user on the internet, what acceptable use is. To some degree, I feel like maybe not, maybe that's a wrong interpretation. Yeah, it'll be interesting, for sure to see, and that, to me, is one of the biggest outlying I wonder. So, for example, the NFT license that has been specified by depot labs. So they say that we can take an NFT on a marketplace, as long as we can prove the ownership, that the ownership is proper, before putting it on the marketplace. So I think the marketplace will have to do a lot of things in order to prevent being under all sorts of things
Like that. When you look at the future, I mean you're going again going back to. You know zach said about that digitized future. When it will happen? Of course, the lovely thing is when a system is in, is invented, which is what we have with blockchain, where it's released and it can't be stopped. So with NFTs, I suppose there's that same question, which is- and, Tyler, you were talking about- you know true- decentralization of NFTs the other day. You know how did you get to that state. Now you have these and we perhaps should talk about this, which is: you do have that you're talking about. Your description was: you're looking through a window. You have to go to the shop, look through the window and look at your NFT. How do we decentralize that? The second you decentralize it, then the laws have to wrap around the NFTs and not the other way around. I mean: do you want to? Could you go into the opportunity for decentralization and
Creating that sort of system? Yeah, so I mean the way that almost all, if not all, NFT marketplaces work is. There is that interface that you're accessing your NFTs through, and there is some where you can take your NFTs and view them on some other blockchain explorer or some other interface. But there tends to be that I can only get at this through a browser, through a particular website, and particularly when you split the NFT, the NFT between the contract that allows you to sell it and the actual representation of that asset, the- and the ipfs address or whatever it might be, that actually holds the image or the art, you're beginning to centralize. You're at least beginning to silo the usability of that thing to where, yeah, if your NFT is inside Ethereum, you have to look through a window,
Open c, or look through the foundation to see your NFT. But if they decide to pull the shade on that and you view that url and they've decided that NFT is no good anymore, you've essentially lost access to that. And so, being by decentralizing that again, yeah, you're what you're doing- is you kind of have to take the reason that they might pull the shade and address that before you ever mint it, and almost put the viewing mechanics or the access mechanics and bake that into the NFT itself. So, whether that's the code to view the NFT, along with the actual art for the NFT, but all of the pieces for how this thing is represented and x access, so not just the security but and not just the trading of the thing, but the actual access to the thing, the way that you hold it and identify to those around you look at this thing that I own whatever that mechanic is that has.
I own whatever that mechanic is that has to be part of the NFT too, so that access to it is just as central to the thing itself, so that you're able to show it. But when you show it, it's also still there. It's so strange that these things are split, because if I hold a baseball card, all of that is contained in that baseball card, but when we've transferred that digitally, we've split these things up and siloed them to where each one can fail individually. And now you're holding up a baseball card but there's no image on it. Or you're holding an image in your brain like no, I can see it in my head, but nobody else can access that picture by having the card that you're showing them. It's weird to think about, but that's the world that we've created. When we've siloed all of these things, we have to find ways to bring those things together in my mind, or else, invariably you give it enough time. These things are going to be siloed, things are going to go away and all of the things that we're purchasing and accessing now are going to be so broken
That they won't have the value that they have, and there's going to be a lot of this sort of hype that goes way up. None of it's going to work and it's going to leave that bad taste in everybody's mouth and we're going to have to slowly crawl back up before we're able to start innovating again. How much does that fit with? Did Stellar want to fix that problem or does it conflict too much with being fast? So there's obviously a big difference between the Stellar Development Foundation and how we use Stellar But Stellar itself is an open protocol that anyone can use for their purposes. So it's if you approach seller and you think it can work for your purposes, go for it. I don't think it's something that SDF is going to work on. Where we're cross border payments, where open access to the world's global financial system, it's a different goal. I think there are some crossovers, particularly when you start to define what is value or what is a financial like. What is that? What does financial access actually mean? What is
Finance. Those things I think begin to be answered differently when it's digital. But when you look at Stellar itself, the protocol in the network and how changes are made to the ledger, the cryptography behind it, that works great for all kinds of use cases outside of this. There are certainly ones that don't fit, but if you approach the network and see that it works well for your use case, there's nobody standing in line saying sorry, yes, it can't do that. And I think I mean I think any of this stuff like, even if SDF is not, like we're not internally developing NFT standards- I think that you know we're having this conversation because some of you guys are and you know I think that it would be worthwhile to see a conform standard or two for this across the platform. You know we've been talking about it now since I started SDF and I'm like I've seen fred's
Ideas for like how he's doing it. I've seen other people working on projects. There's a couple of other marketplaces that have been launched simultaneously and it's just been interesting to see how the conversations that have happened over three, four years are now starting to like that work is now dropping and it's really cool that it's dropping simultaneous to the like hype cycle, because it's not like this, like the work that fred, for example, has done is new. It's not like he just spun this up because suddenly people sold stuff. It's something that he's been doing for a long time and you know some of these other projects that are also issuing entities on Stellar. So I think a standard would be great, like an ecosystem standard. But I think you know it's going to require use cases, which I guess is my. Other point is like I think a big thing we're seeing is a lot of people want to issue NFTs on Stellar, because NFTs are a big deal. But if you look at like right now in the space and you'll see other networks and not name or bash any of them. because I don't think there's anything wrong with it saying like you can issue stuff on ours,
Here's the platform to do it. I think you know people will try that stuff out. But the NFT collector, the one that people are thinking of right now, they're all in Ethereum. They all have and I think the way that you really get people to use nfps is through use cases. Like lightmint is a great. Like you make the game, the users just want to play the game if the NFT is part of that experience. You know they can learn about how that functions as they learn like that community and environment and ecosystem and platform. And I think like actual use cases will bring people to networks and they'll get NFTs through those use cases. I think that just issuing an NFT on Stellar because you want to do an NFT but you don't want to pay 70 dollars in gas on Ethereum. That makes logical sense, but it's not going to attract the current like insanity that you're seeing in other like on Ethereum around it. Does that make sense? Yeah, I mean I wanted to get back just about the, because the
Way on the storage first for NFTs, the way I chose to approach this problem with enlightenment, is basically by not addressing this problem. So essentially, I use what Steve was pointing out- the. There's a step one specifications from Stellar ecosystem, a proposal standard that allows us to describe an asset through a normal file, and that's the only thing that the lightweight market place we will basically care about. So whether the item is stored on ipfs, whether it's stored as a managed data inside the asset itself, is not something that the marketplace will address. Basically, as long as your item is described properly within the domain file, then it will be displayed properly to users on the marketplace. And I decided to use that because at the end, it's currently a standard that is used for Stellar, for describing all assets from Stellar. And this way I don't make-
And this way I don't make- assumptions about how an event will stand out, will come later on- for storing the data, because there's also another thing that I was wondering and is: yes, it's nice to have access to the art in a kind of a permanent way, But is it really where the value is? Because if you look at, for example, the way the first five thousand days has been sold for 69 million, it doesn't really matter if someone gets- and you can actually get- the high resolution copy on ipfs for that app. It's not what carries the value of the item. What here is the value is the fact that someone has the signature to sign a transfer transaction, to pass ownership of that up, And even if tomorrow the only trace remaining of that art is like five by five pixel resolution of it, I think the value will still be there because someone has the ability to sign the
Transaction. I would agree with you on that point to most degree. I think you know newcomers, the space, they want the art, and so when people pull things like change the art on open sea, like, that becomes a pseudo news article because people are like, well, it's gone, but if you look and listen to the, you know the people who are doing art with bitcoin, like colored coins or rare pepes or like, if you listen, the early Ethereum, like style NFT things that have been converted. There's arguments about like are you purchasing the ledger history, the signature, like the ownership here. If you can track the origin of like the first press, then that and like it goes back all the way. So like, even if it started, you know, on one chain and ended up somewhere. As long as you can trace all that back. I think there was an article on italic recently published around similar idea. It's like that's what you're purchasing. And I think to fred's point about art- is like art. People are minting these
Pieces as art. Currently there's no reason that people piece can't be like a legendary sword in somebody else's game and in that regard that aspect, that asset, is going to be represented differently. It exists on chains, so if you hold in your wallet you can like, you know it's proof your ownership, so they can pull that from. You know whether that's albedo or metamask or whatever you're using from, like these things or however. The game interacts with these assets. So just because it was minted as art and there's an ipfs that goes along with it, doesn't mean that every application of that asset that exists has to be art related. I agree 100 and I think that's a really important distinction to make, particularly for the future of NFTs. Even in just identifying what are people actually buying, what are they actually getting, what's the legally defensible item that you're arguing over, what's the thing that's valuable? And it's interesting because the representation
Like traditionally in our brains when we think about what are you getting it? Is the music it? is the picture it is, but because it's so often tied to the medium by which you got it, it's hard to separate those things out. But when you actually look at, what are you selling, like if I go, and I steal that image and mint it myself, outside of there being copyright issues, it's not valuable because I'm not the artist and I can, you can prove that I'm not the artist. I didn't actually make that thing, and that's where you get an art fraud now is. You're not trying to find which one looks good. You're trying to find this artist was the real deal and he painted something. We need to find that one because he actually touched it and it's less the item and more the assurance that the person behind it, the certification that it's legitimate. That's what the blockchain gives you, not the connection to the pixels or the sound waves or whatever scratches on the hard
Drive might be like: the thing that's valuable is the that are, that origination, the certificate and that's. I think we need to keep that in mind, particularly because I think it's extremely interesting that art might change, that as something gets purchased, it's programmed to change in a certain way over time. And we even start to do represent, like if you had you know this 69 million dollar NFT but you could somehow load it up into a game. Maybe it becomes this weird meme thing that no matter what game you're in, you can load in this NFT and it gives you superpowers. Like that's really interesting, that's something you can't do with physical art. That would be fascinating. When you start to approach, what can we do with this medium? That's innovation, that's something that we can only do because it's digital. There's some really fascinating things that I think we need to start exploring by moving away from assuming that people are buying pixels and instead assuming what's true is they're buying certification, they're buying something on the
Blockchain, they're buying their stamp, their part of history in the chain of whatever this thing originally was, because it's actually quite simple: when you get down to what is something value like, what makes something valuable, it's just what is someone else willing to pay for it? And so long as you can make that a large group or large amounts of money, the assurance there is on the blockchain, and that is good. That does work. That's already been proven. The attaching images to that, that's difficult and there's legal issues around there. But if you can rather just have this chain of events and transactions and assurance of ownership, particularly originally, which you can do now, I think you've got something that you can really begin to innovate on: cool, super sorry, are you off to you, Tyler? No, go ahead. Well, I was just going to come up, but there was a, just a model
Which I had a conversation with, someone the other day. It was a interesting brainstorm. Yet it it's combining smart contracts with NFTs, is using an NFT to represent some physical. In this case, let's take a tree. So the person I was speaking to was saying that they wanted to plant trees and they hate the. These models where you know a dollar a tree, the tree gets planted, it gets ripped up six months later. The question is, if you want to plant trees, you need them to be there five, ten years to get the benefit. So that's an asset which is developing over time. It has more value the older it gets, typically. And so if you take a smart contract and you tie it to an NFT, the NFT is tied to this. Tie it to an NFT, the NFT is tied to this case. Let's just take a tree. It's probably going to be a number of trees together and in the smart contract you say to the donor: okay, you're going to
Invest 10 into this smart contract, and when you do that, you're going to get the NFT which represents the tree. The smart contract, then, is where there's checks going on to look at that asset over time and put inputs into the smart contract, saying, hey, tree's still here, everything's good, it's being watered, and on that basis you've had the ten dollars going to the pool. Say there was a dollar pushed out at the beginning to plant the tree. A year later you have a couple more dollars goes and it's going through the community that's looking after these trees. So you can use a smart contract combined with an NFT and if the tree goes you can burn the NFT. You have a way of relating and having a long term investment around natural assets. I think you know my. The way I explain it is probably not that clear, but I think there's a useful way of investors being able to put money into a smart contract, NFT representation and a long term view.
I don't know what you think if that. makes any sense at all. It's super interesting and I think that the issue for me becomes around how do you make assurances between something that's strictly digital and programmed and something that's very much not like what's to? There has to be those reward mechanisms, kind of like what you mentioned, that like what's to keep me from taking an axe and chopping down the trees so that I can plant another one and mint more tokens and get more money like somehow make it monetarily worth keeping that tree alive, and I think some of the problem is there. But I also think there's opportunities in NFT spaces or even just tokenization spaces, where you can get retail investors involved, where it's not big corporations but individuals have a tree token, and somehow there is that ability to keep tabs on what's happening, though, implement economic models that make it more worth it to keep these things as long term investments or opportunities for foresters to
Ensure that they're doing the right thing, that there's monetary incentives for that, because right now, so much of that is flipped where. As long as it's more worth it for me to do the wrong thing, will I choose to do that more often? So we have to flip those economic models to where either there are smart contracts or legal contracts in place that disallow that or disincentivize that or, more preferably, there are economic models in place that are more worth it for you to do the right thing, that you actually earn more money that way. And those are tricky, but I think one of the reasons they're tricky is because there's so many middlemen and so much of these investment opportunities are locked out to little bits of money who don't have large. They're not trying to make a million dollars off of an investment. They're trying to make a small moral decision of I want to do some good in the world and it doesn't matter if my one dollar makes two dollars in five years. I just want to do some good and have some assurance that the good I want to,
Some assurance that the good I want to do, will actually happen. I think blockchain has a lot of potential to open up opportunities for that, for just by the nature of removing so many middlemen- because rather than having human contracts in place, you have computers. Again, it's math instead of morals that are addressing these things, and I think that's a powerful tool that we that we're only really starting to scratch the surface on how that moves just beyond kind of converting traditional finance to digital finance. There's some really interesting opportunities there, but they definitely remain to be seen how successful those can be over the next few years. But innovation in that space is definitely needed and I think it's valuable to look at that. Not to throw a loop here because I wonder if there's some questions available, but I also had a quick question for fred regarding his platform that I got a sneak peek of the other day, because I think you know, similar to how well I don't know, let me just ask the question, fred,
For your platform. Like you, you're sharing, that you had some like cross chain kind of compatibility and that you it looks like light mint marketplace. You become an anchor, essentially right, like you are an NFT anchor for Ethereum ones. With that I mean essentially, during the live I wanted to show that artists, let's say you, had issued some assets on some nfcs on Ethereum. So the goal was to show how you can benefit from Stellar to alleviate all the fees and then also still sell your heart. You know, because what people may not realize is that Stellar is actually a lot of tools for working with NFT. So, for example, you can use path payments in order to have not just cross asset exchanges but you can also have bid and offer discoveries, which means that basically, it's a very powerful tool to connect buyers and sellers and if you are an
Artist on Ethereum, then Stellar is a very it will become a very valuable platform, for the goal is to make it an alternative platform for those sellers in order to allocate the fees. There's also another things that can run on SDEX that people may not realize it's. For example, you can use a time bound transaction in order to settle all the bidders and the participant in an auction at the end of an auction after a specific predetermined period, and you can also use- you can use- the path payments tricks and at the end of the auction, also to implement a reserve price and things like that. So Stellar is extremely versatile as a protocol in order to implement all those, and people need to realize that it could become a very good alternative to those networks that at the moment have a big problem with speed. Do you see compatibility with other networks as well, outside of Ethereum?
Potentially, no, I did not investigate more. But yeah, I think the yeah, their goal is really to make it like that. If you are an artist on Ethereum, then I want to make it that you can try stellars and alternative and benefit sweet. I think that clarifies my question on that. All right, well, this is. I don't know if anybody has any last minute. Otherwise, we're going to open. We have a couple of questions from our engaged and interested audience which I would like to pose to post to the group. So maybe for this would be an interesting one- any plans- and this is kind of a little bit towards SDF, or at least the Stellar side of things, but there- are there any plans to make non fractionable an option in the tamil file? It'd be great to issue whole coin NFTs instead of 0 00001 NFTs. So how are you addressing that? How
Do you think we should address that? There's a, there's SEP work to be done here. There's also smart contract stuff that can be done here. Some of it's just display mechanics right on the platform that you're displaying your NFT on, because you don't, at the end of the day, it's a display thing, but I don't know, fred, how are you addressing the zero one, zero one issue? Yeah, so this is like this has been a hurdle for developing the marketplace because, first, it's not very friendly to users, but there's also some limitations on these dates because of the 32 limit. So there's, you can't price easily an item over 214 75 of any unit. So, in order to solve that, for example, what we do? We use a intermediate market. So, in instead of posting just one big offer, we post two and we issue an asset and price this asset. The problem is that it creates cryptic orders on these DEX. So I think there's definitely a need for addressing this
In order to make it clearer, to prevent the creation of those buffering assets. And, yeah, that could be I'm not sure. My favorite ways would be to go with lifting the limit of it in 32 on the SDEX. That would be my favorite way, the most natural. And then also in terms of being able to, create non fractionable assets or fractionable at very specific decimal place, then that would be the best foster. That would be the best foster. Yeah, there's definitely a lot of different ways to address the issue. There's a lot of reasons that they are issues, whether it's selling issues or selling issues on the DEX, or just visibility issues, where it's weird to see that much fraction. But I will say: you don't, you can issue, particularly because we have functionality around auth required flags. You could issue one of something and then if you built a smart contract through either the Stellar turret
network or even just a centralized service that allows people to sell, buy and sell that asset, you would basically allow that sell that sale of the NFT only through this one like endpoint, where it opened up authorization to whoever was purchasing it, sold that asset in an atomic swap on with the operations and then closed access. So you could, you can absolutely do this already. It's just not incredibly natural but it can absolutely work. I'm particularly interested in the atomic swap stuff because that removes so much of the math issue where you can sell 0 0000 whatever for an infinite amount of the counter asset or the max amount of the counter asset, and not run into any math issues. It's just that how do you create that transaction in a decentralized way where there isn't a third party? That boy, I sure hope they don't go down or I can't move my asset.
So work in that arena is something that's super interesting and to me and stuff something that I'm particularly focused on. Good any follow up questions around that, otherwise we'll move on. So here's one I want to buy a house with a stranger. This has been historically a horrible idea. Is there any way XLM or NFTs can alleviate all of the problems with co ownership of homes or real estate? I don't know Steve. Zack, thoughts around co-ownership with strangers on houses, I'll let Steve go first. I'm happy to as well. I was gonna say after you, but I? The short answer to the question is no. I think you still fall out the same ways. I mean it's there's going to be a contract of some sort between you. But maybe I'm being limited in my thinking. What do you think? I think that NFTs can solve a lot of issues with traditional real estate. I think, if you, but I think one of the.
I think if you, but I think one of the things, and this is a spiel that I'm working on, so I'm going to test it here. It's like with all these other networks, you know, decentralized, distributed, trustless systems, or that's the highlight, right? So, like bitcoin is pressless period of your payments, Ethereum is stressless, like applica, decentralized applications, and you can, you know, build on topic for financial stuff. Stellar is interesting because there's this inherent requirement for trust on the network, because it tethers not only digital assets but also real world assets. And so if you take that kind of same principle to NFTs, like you know, there will be things that exist in real life, that can exist in both worlds, but you will still need to have a trust in like whatever that custodial power is. So when I'm talking about NFT's, like circumvent the title company, you know, ideally, you know that the title companies would anchor these assets and just adapt to the space instead of be relegated out. It creates new
Economies for them. They could have better processes. Maybe that lowers the cost for even doing the signing table stuff. Instead of getting everybody in a room to sign like they can just click a button and digitally transfer that and so, while you still have a record of the physical thing in their vault, you now also have a digital representation that anyone can view on ledger. And I think that you have to have trust when it comes to real world assets and there will always be have to be a facilitator for that. But I don't think that means that you can't disrupt systems like housing now with fractionalized stuff through the questions point. You already have projects on Stellar that are doing that kind of stuff where it's like an apartment, like share, like you can fractionalize that, and that's been a big use case that I've seen. There's, yeah, I think, a small handful of companies doing some cool stuff with that already on the network. So that's that use case is proof like that can work. But that's a different, model completely than
Like something like just, I want to give self Tyler my house. Here's the title: okay bye, like it can't do that We can do it with cars, for some reason, though, but the government still verifies that here in the united states. Yeah, there's reinvention of systems, which is great. I suppose I interpreted the question of: will I better live with the person that would be using fft? Oh yeah, I may have misinterpreted it as well. Then, yeah, depends on the use case. Here we are, we, you know, gonna live in the house or are we just using as an investment? Because investment, I think there is opportunity. But if you're just buying with a random stranger on craigslist, that's, I don't know they're still humans. Well, sorry, just to comment on that, Tyler, it, that is. It gets really interesting, because if you look at ownership, if you do, if you take what zach says and you create a system where the house is kind of containerized within NFT or nf, it'll have to be a number of
NFTs and if you can then easily split ownership, you know you can then take, you know, a 50th share of a house. Have that as part of your investment portfolio. Have everything transparent that you know that's interesting and from a portfolio point of view. I think so too, particularly when you start again opening up to retail investors or this idea of patronage, where you tokenize a restaurant or something and people who like that restaurant, or when you look at art. It's not so much an investment that I hope to resell this thing. I just want to support the people that I love and the art that they do and the things that they make. There's a huge target for that and it's not driven by greed, necessarily, at least it's not monetary greed, it's just I like this thing. I want to see it exist and thrive and there's a whole market out there that I think we're only beginning to really start to tap into. That has nothing to do with me getting rich
And more me enriching the artists and creators that I love. So we need to close out here. This has been a fantastic conversation. One last question here: for those who are not developers or people that maybe more on the art side of things, this would be a good question perhaps for fred: how can they get involved? How can we start issuing art and music and begin to take advantage of marketplaces like what you're building, fred? When are we going to get access what? What's the plan for the future for non developers what's the path forward? So it's going to be live very soon, just fixing the last details, especially about trust, stress, testing and security, because we have created some kind of like contracts with pre order transactions. Just want to make sure that there's no issues with this and this is going to be live on lightning com on the website, you will
Have tools to create and, without any programming required to create, to issue your asset on Stellar. So just need to specify the art. And if you want to, you can store it on ipfs. You can install it somewhere else and also we are also going to run an anchor for you. So there will be a review, we. But, yeah, you will be able to issue your assets without any technical knowledge. Fantastic, very excited. Well, thank you. Any closing thoughts? Comments? I mean, I mean, I only have two closing things. Santa won the first to bounce off of fred. I think there's. I think keep an eye out for that. I'm eager to experiment with it after seeing it. There's also others, I think, around the ecosystem already that you can play around with that. Do it like ever trying, I think, account based nfps and I don't have the urls off the top of my head but I'm sure you can like dig around a little bit if you're part of the Stellar community. What I would say to do is that if you'd want to see and if more NFT projects on
Stellar, get involved in the conversations on the dev group about it and like start talking to other people that are developing NFT based projects so some standards can get uniform across, so these different things can begin to interpret the same, like different assets that are published the same way. That would be my closing statement. Yep, absolutely Stellar global. Find us on Discord and start the discussion. That's a great place to land. I don't know if anybody wants to call out where they can keep up with you and the work that you're doing, and then we will close out Steve. If you want to start where people can keep track of the work that you're doing, yeah, absolutely. Well, come and say hello at task I o. My like to be on twitter. I'm at Steve Walker without an e at the end. So, Steve Walker and great to connect and really appreciate you inviting me in today. It's been a
Great experience. Thank you, super. Yup, it's been great to have you, fred and Sam. So if you want to connect with the project, you can come and join our community. We are- we have a Discord community, over a thousand members- lightmint js you can type in your browser and you will get the invite link and then I'm there almost every day to talk. So if you have any questions, just don't hesitate. And zach, where can people pester? You guys can tag `@stellarorg` on twitter and I will see every single thing that you have ever pasted there multiple times. And yeah, and then also you know the regular places: cubase. All right, super. And once again, I'm Tyler van der Hoeven. You can find me t y v d h on twitter. That's the best place to find me. I also do hang out on Discord occasionally. This has been a ton of fun. Thank you all for joining. We will catch you later, hopefully,
Conversing around art. Thank you very much. See you all, thank.